Refactor Schema and Schema Data Related Documentation (#554)
hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework: website/docs/plugin/framework/handling-data/blocks.mdx

---
page_title: 'Plugin Development - Framework: Handling Data - Blocks'
description: >-
  Blocks.
---

# Blocks

> A block is a container for other content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Terraform language uses a block as a container for other attributes and blocks. Terraform implements many top level blocks, such as `provider` and `resource`, while providers can implement nested blocks in their schema to enable practitioners to configure data.

-> Use [nested attributes](/plugin/framework/handling-data/terraform-concepts#nested-attributes) for new schema implementations. Block support is mainly for migrating prior SDK-based providers.

In this example, the Terraform-defined `resource` block contains a provider-defined `ami` attribute and `network_interface` block.
```

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami = "abc123"

  network_interface {
    # ...
  }
}
```

> A block has a type (resource in this example). Each block type defines how many labels must follow the type keyword. The resource block type expects two labels, which are aws_instance and example in the example above. A particular block type may have any number of required labels, or it may require none as with the nested network_interface block type.
> 
> After the block type keyword and any labels, the block body is delimited by the { and } characters. Within the block body, further arguments and blocks may be nested, creating a hierarchy of blocks and their associated arguments.
> 
> The Terraform language uses a limited number of top-level block types, which are blocks that can appear outside of any other block in a configuration file. Most of Terraform's features (including resources, input variables, output values, data sources, etc.) are implemented as top-level blocks.
> 
> ## List, Set and Single Nested Blocks
> 
> Wherever possible, the usage of [nested attributes](/plugin/framework/handling-data/terraform-concepts#nested-attributes) is preferred.
> 
> The three options for [nested blocks](/plugin/framework/handling-data/terraform-concepts#nested-blocks) are `ListNestedBlock`, `SetNestedBlock` and `SingleNestedBlock`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration syntax for a provider-defined block is a type (block name) and the body is delimited by the `{` and `}` characters. Each block has an associated nesting mode, which declares whether a block is repeatable. The available nesting modes are:

- List: Ordered collection of objects
- Set: Unordered collection of objects
- Single: One object

For list and set blocks, configurations can implement [`dynamic` block expressions](/language/expressions/dynamic-blocks) to reduce hardcoded block values.

Refer to [nested blocks](/plugin/framework/handling-data/terraform-concepts#nested-blocks) for implementation examples in framework code.
```

Reviewer: Note: it may be worth putting the block code examples on this page, rather than the concepts page.

---
page_title: 'Plugin Development - Framework: Handling Data - Blocks'
description: >-
  Blocks.
---

> # Blocks

Reviewer: We can borrow some content from the migration guide or Terraform's language pages to describe these. 👍

Author: Have done exactly that 😀
